Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you a Drama Thriller
film called The Girl With All The Gifts.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.In a dystopian world
taken over by a fungal disease, humankind’s
only hope is a group of hybrid children.
They do not look like the stereotypical superheroes;
they are in wheelchairs and are heavily guarded
by soldiers because they crave living flesh.
In a rather strange school setting, Helen
Justineau is responsible for educating them.
Among the children is Melanie, whose intelligence
is exceptional and is the one closest to Ms.
Justineau.
The children at the army base are treated
lowly by the guards.
Guns are constantly being pointed at them,
and the food given is very unpleasant.
To say the least, they are treated like outcasts
and animals.The children are being experimented
on by Dr. Caroline Caldwell, who is in charge
of the research for these kinds of cases.
Dr. Caldwell is fond of Melanie because she
is a brilliant, bright, and insightful child.
From time to time, she asks Melanie to solve
riddles to test her.
Dr Caldwell randomly made her pick a number
between one to twenty; she chose thirteen,
and on the following day, on her way to the
classroom, Melanie noticed that one of her
classmates, Kenny, is absent.
What made her suspicious is that Kenny is
numbered as “13”.
She brought this to Ms. Justineau’s attention,
but the teacher brushes the subject off; little
did they know, Kenny is being experimented.
On that same day, Ms. Justineau assigned the
class to write their own story.
Melanie volunteered to read her story out
loud to the class.
Her story is about a mother and a child; her
story deeply touches Ms. Justineau that she
touches Melanie on the head in a caring way.
Lacking motherly care, Melanie feels comforted
by Ms. Justineau’s simple act of affection.
The guards see the teacher caress the student,
and they come into the room furiously.
Sergeant Eddie Parks, the leader of the soldiers,
shouts at Ms. Justineau and reminds her that
physical touch can trigger these children’s
craving for human flesh.
Sergeant Parks proceeds to show Ms. Justineau
what will happen if she ever does it again.
He comes toward one of the children, spits
on his hand, and lets him sniff it.
In just a matter of seconds, the boy turns
frantic as he reaches out for the sergeant.
The boy's action also caused other students
to act the same way, almost like they want
to attack Sergeant Parks.
Ms. Justineau is left devastated as the class
ended because she feels like it is her fault.
After the class, Melanie is escorted to her
cell by the guards, and Sergeant Parks walks
by.
Melanie tells the sergeant that Ms. Justineau
likes her best, and the teacher would rather
touch her than him.
Sergeant Parks became angry and left her tied
to her wheelchair for the whole night.
Ms. Justineau walks by Melanie’s cell and
found her still tied to her wheelchair.
Out of kindness, she unties her from the chair,
but Melanie starts acting frantic and even
tells her
teacher that she smells nice.
Fighting the urge to attack her, Melanie shouts
at Ms. Justineau to get out of her cell.
She came out safely but little did she know
that Dr. Caldwell found out about her visit.
Dr. Caldwell initiated a conversation with
Melanie and, once again, made her pick a number.
Melanie sensed the pattern and chose “4,"
which is the number assigned to her.
Dr. Caldwell fell silent and walked away.
One day, instead of being escorted to her
classroom, Melanie is brought outside.
The camp is now attacked by the “hungries”
or the ones infected by the highly contagious
fungal disease.
Melanie is brought to Dr. Caldwell’s lab
for medical procedures, but it goes wrong
as the hungries overrun the camp.
One of the nurses is attacked; Dr. Caldwell
runs for her life, leaving Melanie alone in
the lab.
She manages to escape by using a scalpel to
set herself free.
Outside is complete chaos.
To get to Ms. Justineau, Melanie attacks two
soldiers, infecting them.
Melanie fell unconscious, and Ms. Justineau
carried her to board an escaping truck with
Sergeant Parks, Dr. Caldwell, and two other
soldiers, Gallagher and Dillon.
Melanie is tied, and they use a restraint
mask to prevent her from biting others while
traveling.
When they stop for water, a group of hungries
proceed to attack, and Dillon is infected,
leaving Sergeant Parks no choice but to shoot
him.
They all reach London by foot, and they pass
through a swarm of dormant hungries by using
a gel that conceals their smell.
They end up in an abandoned hospital to find
shelter for the night.
Dr. Caldwell explains that second-generation
hungries, like Melanie, were discovered after
newborns killed their infected mothers from
the inside by burrowing the womb.
The following day, their shelter is surrounded
by hungries, and Melanie volunteers to go
outside and look for a way to get them out
of the building.
As a second-generation hungry, she is completely
ignored by the hungries.
On her walk, Melanie finds a stray cat, eats
it.
This instantly satisfies her hunger and craving
for blood.
She then continues to explore abandoned houses.
In one of the houses, she found a stray dog
and uses it to catch the hungries’ attention,
making it safe enough for the group to escape
from the building.
Melanie is given a walkie-talkie to monitor
the area while communicating with the group.
As they advance and walk through the city,
they encounter a piled tower with infected
bodies, which encircles the building.
The amount of infection has taken over the
building with seed pods that could release
airborne contamination.
The group takes shelter in an abandoned mobile
lab.
After some time, Melanie feels hungry and
is once again set free outside by the group.
Gallagher, who is also in search of food,
ventures around the city.
Melanie comes across a group of uninfected
but feral children, and she observes them
from a distance.
Back in the lab, Dr. Caldwell is in great
pain as she fights her inflammatory sepsis
— a blood poisoning she got from cuts on
her hand.
Dr. Caldwell persuades Ms. Justineau to sacrifice
Melanie to synthesize a vaccine that would
end the fungal disease.
The group of children has caught Gallagher’s
scent, and in an attempt to save him from
danger, Melanie helps the group track him
by searching for him around the city.
It’s too late since the group of children
found him first, and he ends up being eaten
by them.
The group arrived at the place where Gallagher
is killed.
They discovered his helpless body, all devoured.
The rest of them are also surrounded by the
feral children, but Melanie fights their leader
and brutally kills him with a bat, shooing
the rest of them away.
Her bravery makes way for the group to escape
and find their way back to the lab.
Upon arriving, Dr. Caldwell uses a gas tank
to make Melanie, Ms. Justineau, and Sergeant
Parks unconscious.
In this way, she can freely dissect Melanie’s
body.
As she struggles to do the procedure because
of her sepsis, Melanie gains consciousness
before the process starts.
Dr. Caldwell explains to Melanie that she
can make a cure out of her and that it is
a way to save Ms. Justineau, who is very close
to Melanie’s heart.
Dr. Caldwell guilts Melanie into sacrificing
her own life; she assures the little girl
that it will not hurt, and she is doing Ms.
Justineau a great favor.
Melanie refused; she managed to escape, and
Dr. Caldwell followed her, but she ended up
being eaten by a group of feral children.
Melanie sets fire to the seed pods surrounding
the tall tower.
Because of the heat, spores and seeds are
released into the air.
These spores could cause humans to turn into
hungries.
Melanie runs into Sergeant Parks, who left
the lab in search of Ms. Justineau.
Melanie admitted that she has opened the pods
and apologized for it.
Sergeant Parks has been infected by the spores
released into the air and begs Melanie to
take his gun and shoot him because he does
not want to turn into a hungry.
Melanie obeys him and shoots.
Back in the lab, secured by the airtight windows,
Ms. Justineau watched as the spores fall.
She watches Melanie from the sealed door,
and they look at each other longingly.
Ms. Justineau settles and is confined in the
mobile lab as the outside environment is highly
lethal except for the second-generation hungries.
She continues to educate Melanie and the rest
of the feral children with a sealed door dividing
her from the rest of them.
Melanie then continues to lead the group of
feral children, even teaching them to speak.
All of them have accepted this new reality
and this compromised world that they are forced
to live in.